Persona component (#571)
microsoft/atlas-design: site/src/components/persona.md

---
title: Persona
description: Persona component in the Atlas Design System
template: standard
figmaEmbed: https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2FuVA2amRR71yJZ0GS6RI6zL%2F%25F0%259F%258C%259E-Atlas-Design-Library%3Ftype%3Ddesign%26node-id%3D1284%253A2163%26mode%3Ddesign%26t%3DklysUJ7ALWgcF1SQ-1 allowfullscreen
classType: Component
classPrefixes:
  - persona
---

# Persona

> We use the persona to represent users. It consists of two parts - user's avatar and details. Both subcomponents can be used independent of one another. Details has their name and optional metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the persona to represent users. It consists of two parts - a user's avatar and details. Both subcomponents can be used independent of one another. Details has their name and optional metadata.
```

Author: Updated

| Class pattern             | Sizes      |
| ------------------------- | ---------- |
| `.persona.persona-<size>` | `sm`, `lg` |

## Usage

Below is an example of the most common persona component use-case.

```html
<div class="persona">
	<figure class="persona-avatar">
		<img src="~/src/scaffold/media/avatar.png" alt="Avatar for Jane Doe" />
	</figure>
	<div class="persona-details">
		<p class="persona-name">Jane Doe</p>
		<p>Software Engineer</p>
	</div>
</div>
```

Persona's details may contain a link to user's profile, and with help of the [`.stretched-link` component](../components/stretched-link.md) the whole area persona takes becomes clickable:

```html
<div class="persona position-relative">
	<figure class="persona-avatar">
		<img src="~/src/scaffold/media/avatar.png" alt="Avatar for Jane Doe" />
	</figure>
	<div class="persona-details">
		<a class="persona-name justify-self-stretch stretched-link" href="#">Jane Doe</a>
		<p>Software Engineer</p>
	</div>
</div>
```

> Persona might have both avatar and details parts presented at the same time or just one of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Persona might have both avatar and details presented at the same time or just one of them.
```

Author: Updated

---
title: Persona
description: Persona component in the Atlas Design System
template: standard
figmaEmbed: https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2FuVA2amRR71yJZ0GS6RI6zL%2F%25F0%259F%258C%259E-Atlas-Design-Library%3Ftype%3Ddesign%26node-id%3D1284%253A2163%26mode%3Ddesign%26t%3DklysUJ7ALWgcF1SQ-1 allowfullscreen
classType: Component
classPrefixes:
  - persona
---

# Persona

> Persona component comes in handy for user's representation. It consists of two parts - user's avatar and details. Details has their name and optional metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the persona to represent users. It consists of two parts - user's avatar and details. Both subcomponents can be used independent of one another. Details has their name and optional metadata.
```

| `.persona.persona-<size>` | `16x16` `24x24` `32x32 (default)` `36x36` `48x48` | `tablet`, `desktop` |

## Usage

Below are examples of the most common persona component use-cases - one with an image avatar and another with user's initials.

```html
<div class="persona">
	<figure class="persona-avatar">
		<img src="~/src/scaffold/media/avatar.png" alt="username" />
	</figure>
	<div class="persona-description">
		<p>Jane Doe</p>
		<p>Software Engineer</p>
	</div>
</div>

<div class="persona margin-top-md">
	<div class="persona-avatar">
		<span>JD</span>
	</div>
	<div class="persona-description">
		<p>John Doe</p>
		<p>Software Engineer</p>
	</div>
</div>
```

Persona component might contain a link to user's profile, with help of the [`.stretched-link` component](../components/stretched-link.md) the whole area persona takes becomes clickable:

```html
<div class="persona position-relative">
	<div class="persona-avatar">
		<span>JD</span>
	</div>
	<div class="persona-description">
		<a class="justify-self-stretch stretched-link" href="#">John Doe</a>
		<p>Software Engineer</p>
	</div>
</div>
```

> Persona might have both avatar and description presetned at the same time or just one of them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Persona might have both avatar and description presented at the same time or just one of them.
```

---
title: Persona
description: Persona component in the Atlas Design System
template: standard
figmaEmbed: https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2FuVA2amRR71yJZ0GS6RI6zL%2F%25F0%259F%258C%259E-Atlas-Design-Library%3Ftype%3Ddesign%26node-id%3D1284%253A2163%26mode%3Ddesign%26t%3DklysUJ7ALWgcF1SQ-1 allowfullscreen
classType: Component
classPrefixes:
  - persona
---

# Persona

Persona component comes in handy for user's representation. It consists of two parts - user's avatar and details. Details has their name and optional metadata.

| Class pattern             | Sizes                              | screensize          |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ------------------- |

> | `.persona.persona-<size>` | `xs` `sm` `md (default)` `lg` `xl` | `tablet`, `desktop` |

Reviewer: how many sizes do we really need?

Author: Left only 5 sizes, per the conversation in Figma we can't cut to 3. And removed the responsive ones

## Usage

Below are examples of the most common persona component use-cases - one with an image avatar and another with user's initials.

```html
<div class="persona">
	<figure class="persona-avatar">
		<img src="~/src/scaffold/media/avatar.png" alt="username" />
	</figure>
	<div class="persona-description">
		<p>Jane Doe</p>
		<p>Software Engineer</p>
	</div>
</div>

<div class="persona margin-top-md">
	<div class="persona-avatar">
		<span>JD</span>
	</div>
	<div class="persona-description">
		<p>John Doe</p>
		<p>Software Engineer</p>
	</div>
</div>
```

> Persona component might contain a link to user's profile, and with help of the [`.stretched-link` component](../components/stretched-link.md) the whole area persona takes becomes clickable:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Persona description may contain a link to user's profile. With the help of [`.stretched-link` component](../components/stretched-link.md), the whole area persona becomes clickable:
```

Author: Updated!

| ------------ | ------------------- |
| `persona-xs` | 28px                |
| `persona-sm` | 32px                |
| `persona-md` | 36px                |
| `persona-lg` | 42px                |
| `persona-xl` | 48px                |

```html
<div class="display-flex flex-wrap-wrap gap-xxs">
	<div class="persona persona-xs">
		<figure class="persona-avatar">
			<img src="~/src/scaffold/media/avatar.png" alt="username" />
		</figure>
	</div>
	<div class="persona persona-sm">
		<figure class="persona-avatar">
			<img src="~/src/scaffold/media/avatar.png" alt="username" />
		</figure>
	</div>
	<div class="persona persona-md">
		<figure class="persona-avatar">
			<img src="~/src/scaffold/media/avatar.png" alt="username" />
		</figure>
	</div>
	<div class="persona persona-lg">
		<figure class="persona-avatar">
			<img src="~/src/scaffold/media/avatar.png" alt="username" />
		</figure>
	</div>
	<div class="persona persona-xl">
		<figure class="persona-avatar">
			<img src="~/src/scaffold/media/avatar.png" alt="username" />
		</figure>
	</div>
</div>

<div class="display-flex flex-wrap-wrap gap-xxs margin-top-md">
	<div class="persona persona-xs">
		<div class="persona-avatar">

> 			<span>ww</span>

Reviewer 3: If we're going to support styled-text avatars, we should ensure we demo accessible markup for these:

Could you please add `role=img` and an `aria-label`?

Author: Updated
